# The role of algorithm in computing

> 1.1-1 Give a real-world example that requires sorting or a real-world example that requires computing a convex hull.

- Sorting: phone book in smartphones, application list in smartphones, prices e.g. in website of restaurant
- Convex hull: animal area of occurence based on GPS position where it was seen, collision avoidance system detects obstacles and computes a path that avoid collision 

> 1.1-2 Other than speed, what other measures of efficiency might one use in a real-world setting?

- memory consumption
- resource consumption (cpu or gpu)
- number of generated assembly code

> 1.1-3 Select a data structure that you have seen previously, and discuss its strengths and limitations.
 
Array:
- [pros] due to fact that an elements of array are allocated in contigous memory block, iterating through those elements is fast
- [cons] finding element in array is slower than e.g. in map

> 1.1-4 How are the shortest-path and traveling-salesman problems given above similar? How are they different?

- [similar] both problems are represented with a graph usage
- [difference] in shortest-path problem we are looking for the shortest-path beetwen two different nodes but in traveling-salesman problem we are looking for a path which allows us to visit all nodes and back to the first one. In other words, traveling-salesman problem asks the following question: "Given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities, what is the shortest possible route that visits each city exactly once and returns to the origin city?" whereas shortest-path problem asks the following question: "Given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities, what is the shortest possible route beetwen two specific cities?"

> 1.1-5 Come up with a real-world problem in which only the best solution will do. Then come up with one in which a solution that is "approximately" the best is good enough.

- the best: medical system looking for an diseased tissue based on its images. Such system has to be very accurate
- "approximetely" the best: shortest path in a city. It doesn't metter if we drive few meters more
